---
title: 'Foundations of Machine Learning Systems: Essential Papers'
date: 2023-08-14
permalink: /posts/2023/08/foundations-of-mlsys/
tags:
  - MLSys
  - Course
---

I think this course is a very good introductory course [cs294-ai-sys-sp22](https://ucbrise.github.io/cs294-ai-sys-sp22/) on ML systems. I will read the papers in it and write detailed reviews and comments.


Papers
======
Week1:
======
[SysML: The New Frontier of Machine Learning Systems](https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.03257)
------

1. Designing software systems to support the full machine learning lifecycle - This includes enabling quick "programming" of ML models through emerging interfaces, supporting development, monitoring, debugging etc. of production ML applications, and defining ML models and systems in higher-level ways.
2. Designing hardware systems optimized for machine learning - This includes developing specialized hardware for ML workloads, taking advantage of properties like stochasticity for new trade-offs, and distributed systems design for ML.
3. Designing ML systems for metrics beyond accuracy - Such as power efficiency, accessibility, cost, latency, privacy, security, fairness and interpretability. This involves techniques like federated learning to enable privacy/security, making ML more accessible to non-experts, optimizations for on-device deployment etc.
------

[Principles of Computer System Design](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/B9780123749574000104#st0015)
------
1. Introduces the concept of "system" and provides a technical definition: a system is a set of interconnected components that exhibits expected behavior at the interface with its environment.
2. Discusses the viewpoint that needs to be established when analyzing a system: purpose, 3. granularity of components, system boundary, and interfaces of interest.
3. Introduces five signs of complexity: large number of components, large number of interconnections, many irregularities, long description, team of designers needed.
4. Discusses two sources of complexity: cascading and interacting requirements, maintaining high utilization. Applies the "principle of escalating complexity" and "law of diminishing returns".
5. Introduces four common techniques for coping with complexity: modularity, abstraction, layering, hierarchy.
6. Explores two ways in which computer systems are different: no physical limits on composition, unprecedented rate of technology change.
7. Adds two additional techniques computer systems use to cope with complexity: iteration and keep it simple.
8. Overviews the three themes of the book: modularity, principle-based design, building robust and resilient systems.